README.md, before:

# Mishax

## Introduction

Mishax is a utility library for mechanistic interpretability research, with its motivations explained in this [blog post](https://www.alignmentforum.org/posts/C5KAZQib3bzzpeyrg/progress-update-1-from-the-gdm-mech-interp-team-full-update#Instrumenting_LLM_model_internals_in_JAX). It enables users to do 2 things:

`mishax.ast_patcher` enables running code from some other library (e.g. a deep learning codebase) with some source-level code modifications applied. For mechanistic interpretability this can be used to stick probes in the model and intervene at arbitrary locations. This otherwise requires forking the code that’s being modified, but that comes with more maintenance requirements.

`mishax.safe_greenlet`, given a complicated function `f` that allows running arbitrary callbacks somewhere deep inside (e.g. using Flax’s `intercept_methods`), enables transforming it into an ordinary-looking Python `for` loop that iterates over internal values and allows them to be replaced with other values. Behind the scenes, this will run `f` in a kind of separate “thread” –- but the user can mostly ignore that, and use the loop to read and write representations into the model during a forward pass, in a way that interoperates well with the rest of JAX.

In `mishax.examples.gemma` you can find an example of instrumenting an LLM codebase; it's pointed at the https://github.com/google-deepmind/gemma reference implementation of Gemma.

### Note

`ast_patcher` relies on code transformations of the target code, which violates some usual abstractions. Careless use may reduce codebase maintainability -- AST patching is best deployed in moderation and with care. For more details, see the `ModuleASTPatcher` docstring.

## Setup

```shell
python3 -m venv $HOME/mishax-venv
source $HOME/mishax-venv/bin/activate
python3 -m pip install git+git://github.com/google-deepmind/mishax.git
```

With deps for the Gemma example:

```shell
python3 -m venv $HOME/mishax-venv
source $HOME/mishax-venv/bin/activate
python3 -m pip install git+git://github.com/google-deepmind/mishax.git[gemma]
```

To deactivate the virtual environment, run `deactivate`.

## Run tests

```shell
source $HOME/mishax-venv/bin/activate
python3 -m pip install git+git://github.com/google-deepmind/mishax.git[dev]
python3 -m mishax.ast_patcher_test
python3 -m mishax.safe_greenlet_test
python3 -m mishax.instrument_flax_loop_test
python3 -m mishax.instrument_jax_loop_test
python3 -m pip install git+git://github.com/google-deepmind/mishax.git[gemma]
python3 -m mishax.examples.gemma_test
```

## Colab Tutorial

A colab notebook demonstrating how to instrument Gemma internals with mishax
is available here: [colab link](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1rP2cgyx0wXjVt72db7dL1la0VqUaMu0S#revisionId=0Bxemsxg8RNFNekR6VFh3MnhmRjd3QUhKSlN0cnk1YVBVeHRZPQ)

Commit message:

Adding Statements Regarding Tech Transfers from USA to PRC!
See my repository for Reasons Why I Protest against PRC threats that are sickening and degrading USA: https://github.com/LinChiMingRocks/Reasons-Why-I-Protest

I have been protesting since 3-4 years ago publicly, and, privately, maybe since I was still in Middle School like 10-12 years ago (but that was against Communism because, back then, there was no problems like these today), so please see my background before you think that I am a spam. I have been emotionally traumatized by Transnational Repression conducted secretly (aka covertly) by the People's Republic of China (PRC).

Here I add these statements:

"""
Disclaimer and Personal Statements of Tech Transfers from USA to PRC!

U.S. EAR restricts AI exports (e.g., model weights >10^25 FLOP, ECCN 4E091) to PRC/Entity List.
Check license needs: bis.doc.gov/ear. Report issues to compliance.

Even if not controlled, I protest unauthorized sharing—protect U.S. security, in accordance with my rights to 1st Amendment.
"""

README.md, after:

Disclaimer and Personal Statements of Tech Transfers from USA to PRC!

U.S. EAR restricts AI exports (e.g., model weights >10^25 FLOP, ECCN 4E091) to PRC/Entity List.
Check license needs: bis.doc.gov/ear. Report issues to compliance.

Even if not controlled, I protest unauthorized sharing—protect U.S. security, in accordance with my rights to 1st Amendment.

# Mishax

## Introduction

Mishax is a utility library for mechanistic interpretability research, with its motivations explained in this [blog post](https://www.alignmentforum.org/posts/C5KAZQib3bzzpeyrg/progress-update-1-from-the-gdm-mech-interp-team-full-update#Instrumenting_LLM_model_internals_in_JAX). It enables users to do 2 things:

`mishax.ast_patcher` enables running code from some other library (e.g. a deep learning codebase) with some source-level code modifications applied. For mechanistic interpretability this can be used to stick probes in the model and intervene at arbitrary locations. This otherwise requires forking the code that’s being modified, but that comes with more maintenance requirements.

`mishax.safe_greenlet`, given a complicated function `f` that allows running arbitrary callbacks somewhere deep inside (e.g. using Flax’s `intercept_methods`), enables transforming it into an ordinary-looking Python `for` loop that iterates over internal values and allows them to be replaced with other values. Behind the scenes, this will run `f` in a kind of separate “thread” –- but the user can mostly ignore that, and use the loop to read and write representations into the model during a forward pass, in a way that interoperates well with the rest of JAX.

In `mishax.examples.gemma` you can find an example of instrumenting an LLM codebase; it's pointed at the https://github.com/google-deepmind/gemma reference implementation of Gemma.

### Note

`ast_patcher` relies on code transformations of the target code, which violates some usual abstractions. Careless use may reduce codebase maintainability -- AST patching is best deployed in moderation and with care. For more details, see the `ModuleASTPatcher` docstring.

## Setup

```shell
python3 -m venv $HOME/mishax-venv
source $HOME/mishax-venv/bin/activate
python3 -m pip install git+git://github.com/google-deepmind/mishax.git
```

With deps for the Gemma example:

```shell
python3 -m venv $HOME/mishax-venv
source $HOME/mishax-venv/bin/activate
python3 -m pip install git+git://github.com/google-deepmind/mishax.git[gemma]
```

To deactivate the virtual environment, run `deactivate`.

## Run tests

```shell
source $HOME/mishax-venv/bin/activate
python3 -m pip install git+git://github.com/google-deepmind/mishax.git[dev]
python3 -m mishax.ast_patcher_test
python3 -m mishax.safe_greenlet_test
python3 -m mishax.instrument_flax_loop_test
python3 -m mishax.instrument_jax_loop_test
python3 -m pip install git+git://github.com/google-deepmind/mishax.git[gemma]
python3 -m mishax.examples.gemma_test
```

## Colab Tutorial

A colab notebook demonstrating how to instrument Gemma internals with mishax
is available here: [colab link](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1rP2cgyx0wXjVt72db7dL1la0VqUaMu0S#revisionId=0Bxemsxg8RNFNekR6VFh3MnhmRjd3QUhKSlN0cnk1YVBVeHRZPQ)
